.TH GRIMOIRE 1 "2024-12-01" "grimoire" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
grimoire \- terminal cheatsheet viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B grimoire
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIfile\fR|\fIname\fR|\fIdirectory\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B grimoire
renders .grim TOML files as styled reference cards with responsive multi-column layout in the terminal.
.PP
When invoked without arguments, it opens the default library directory. When given a .grim file path, a document name/alias, or a directory, it opens accordingly.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-library \fIpath\fR
Path to grimoire library directory.
.TP
.B \-\-tab \fIname\fR
Select a document tab by name or alias.
.TP
.B \-\-section \fIid\fR
Select a section by id.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-icons
Disable Nerd Font icons.
.TP
.B \-\-plain
Plain mode (minimal styling).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable color output.
.TP
.B \-\-completion \fIshell\fR
Output shell completion script (bash, zsh, or fish).
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version information.
.SH KEYBINDS
.TP
.B H / L
Switch tabs.
.TP
.B 1\-9
Jump to tab.
.TP
.B j / k
Scroll.
.TP
.B g / G
Top / bottom.
.TP
.B Ctrl+d / Ctrl+u
Half-page scroll.
.TP
.B n / N
Next / previous command.
.TP
.B y
Yank (copy) active command.
.TP
.B u
Open link picker.
.TP
.B /
Search.
.TP
.B q
Quit.
.SH LIBRARY RESOLUTION
Grimoire looks for .grim files in the following order:
.PP
1. $GRIMOIRE_HOME
.br
2. $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/grimoire
.br
3. ~/.config/grimoire
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/grimoire/*.grim
Default cheatsheet library location.
.SH AUTHOR
Joao Soares
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tmux (1)
.PP
Project: https://github.com/gh-jsoares/grimoire
